I Only Like You for Your Dog

===

I first saw her on a midsummer night. A distant shadow on the hilltop silhouetted against the light of the full moon, a she-wolf standing majestic, fur waving in the hot breeze. Pushing my snout against the bay windows of the living room, I saw the proud peaks of her ears flicker as she turned her head in my direction. I could sense a wildness in her gaze, a stark contrast from the tightness of the collar around my neck. As though hypnotized, I clambered through the doggy door and bolted through the overgrown fields, toward the place where she was. But I did not find her that night. There was only her scent left in the tall grass, the overwhelming musk of her urine.

For a month I waited for her, pressed up every night against the window. My human Mary would come and pat me on the head. "What are you looking at, Luna?" she would ask. But I never broke my gaze. Treats and toys and "good girl"s could not pull me from my station. And eventually, on the next full moon, I saw her again. As in a dream, she walked over that hill, silver fur gleaming in the moonlight, and stopped at the edge of our garden. This time when I ran to meet her she did not disappear. We circled each other and I took in her scent. It was the smell of the woods, of pine and blood and wild mint. Her eyes shone amber in the darkness, like wildfire. We ran together under the moon, traveling the secret paths known only to our genus. It was not until nearly dawn when I returned home, where Mary would wake to find me exhausted and covered in dew.

For a full year this continued. I learned to watch the moon for her appearance. When it rose full, we would run in the thick undergrowth of the forest, hunt rabbits and shrews, and nuzzle each other in the chill night air. As the day started to break she would disappear along with the moon, and I would return home to sleep at the foot of Mary's bed. Thus we continued from summer through winter and into summer again. In the warm months we ran after rabbits and drank from the cool river. In the cold months we made burrows in the snow. As we pranced and frolicked, the world changed slowly around us. The woods behind my house flattened into roads. New houses sprang up, and fences blocked our old routes. On the last summer night we ran together, we scrambled over wet concrete paths and dug under newly erected barriers, and I barely returned home before break of dawn.

The next month, on a hot humid night just like the one we met, I waited for her as usual. The air shimmered outside the window, cicadas chirping in slow crescendos and decrescendos from seemingly everywhere at once. I wagged in anticipation, searching for her shape in the distance. I waited all night for her, but she did not come, and as the moon rose and fell across the sky my tail drooped lower and my excited panting turned into soft whimpers. The hill where I first saw her was no longer visible, blocked by the bricks and concrete of a new housing development, and as dawn broke I laid down my head, finally ending my vigil.

That morning I did not eat the breakfast Mary prepared for me. I didn't move when she called me for our daily walk. I didn't even wag when she came to pet me. Mary did all she could to cheer me up. She brought me tennis balls and squeaky rabbits and prepared me feasts of beef and chicken, but nothing could lift my spirits. I spent my days alternating between staring out the window and lying on the couch with my head buried between the cushions. From time to time I crawled out to the back yard to sniff the air for traces of her scent.

In the midst of my misery, I barely noticed changes occurring in Mary's life as well. Though she still attended well to my needs, she seemed to be preoccupied with something else. She would spend hours on the phone, pacing back and forth in the living room, and sometimes she wouldn't come home until late at night, smelling of perfume and alcohol. She seemed happier as well. Often I heard her say the name "Claire." One day, Mary spent hours in her dressing room before giving me a pat and heading out in the afternoon. I didn't see her again until after dark, when the headlights of her car beamed through the front windows. Moments later, the door opened and two sets of footsteps entered the house.

"Welcome to my place Claire," I heard Mary say. Walking over to the couch, she continued, "This is my dog Luna. She hasn't been feeling very good lately, but I hope the two of you will get along."

My nose perked up as the new woman approached. Strange, I thought. That smell - it was the smell of the woods, of pine and blood and wild mint. I looked up at a woman with silver hair. Her eyes were amber, like wildfire. I almost barked in excitement, jumping to my feet and wagging faster than I'd ever wagged before. I ran over, raised my paws, and licked Claire excitedly as she laughed and stroked my fur. Behind her, I saw Mary's mouth drop open as she took in my sudden change in mood. Without taking her eyes off me, Claire kissed my head, smiled, and said, "I think we'll get along just fine."
