GENRE: Suspense and/or Thriller
ACTION: Attending a funeral
OBJECT: A burner phone

===

August 12

Only one funeral today - one Maynard Hayes, 44 years. Competent engineer from the recollection of his coworkers, but to their embarassment nobody could share a single anecdote for the ceremony. This death felt more final than most. Following the rites, Hayes's possessions passed through Central Inventory, and his body passed into Recycling. Tomorrow morning, the only mark of his existence will be a record buried in the vast archives of the ship's logs.

Hayes was a death by despair, an unfortunate symptom of our times. A postmortem sweep of his living quarters discovered a mound of literature from the Last Church. Aside from the gloomy texts, the only interesting discovery was a 3D-printed smartphone, with custom-etched photonics running a hand-rolled OS. A bare-bones burner, completely off the grid. Inventory had no clue what to do with it, so I kept the device for myself. It makes me feel strange to think that this unknown man, in life, had a secret universe of his own.

---

August 13

I hear a lot of talk about the Last Church these days. People are ready to call it quits on existence. Whatever drive our ancestors had that caused them to launch this generation ship is long gone. Nothing has changed for long beyond even our written memory, and in these stretches of deep time with no past or future, it's hard to shake the feeling that our lives are only a slow wait for death. Earlier today there was a shield malfunction, and a micro-asteroid tore a gash through the hull in sector 23-K. The depressurization killed several dozen people, and yet the news hardly seems to cause a ripple.

---

August 14

An investigation into the shields revealed that the last engineer to touch the system was none other than Maynard Hayes. Something about a malicious code injection. Good thing I kept that device of his, but unlocking it won't be easy. All day long workers in hazmat suits have been trawling through remains from Recycling. There's a pile of every finger fragment matching Hayes's pigmentation, and we're trying them as fast as the phone will allow.

---

August 18

Before ending his life, Hayes did major damage to the ship. Engineering says they can patch most of it, but the fuel that he ejected into space is gone forever. There's not even close to enough energy to reach our destination. Latest news from our navigators says we need to reduce power usage by 95% - the ship can no longer support the bulk of our population. Strangely, the news seems to have sparked a kind of catharsis. Like a man in a stupor shaken awake, the corridors of the ship have come alive with sounds of laughter and crying. Most people have decided to call an end to things. A small number, mostly young people not yet fully weary of life, have chosen to continue the journey. Maybe life will survive after all. I don't know whether I hope they succeed or fail.
