Prompt: Writers have 48 hours to craft an original 500-word story in their assigned genre, with the assigned action taking place and the object physically appearing.

GENRE: Action and/or Adventure
ACTION: Shoveling
OBJECT: A hockey stick

===========
FIRST DRAFT
===========

From the locker room, we hear the last roaring echoes of the pre-game show, and the thunderous cheers of the distant crowd. Faintly, the drums roll low and an announcer starts in on his rehearsed patter, hyping up the audience for tonight's match.

We rise on cue, tightening helmet straps and adjusting knee pads. I shift the gro-gel packs on my chest and back, twisting open valves that pump the fluid into my veins.

"Show time!" shouts coach. "Let's crush some skulls today!"

"Frostwolves fight!" we shout back, storming out of the room in a sea of collective adrenaline. We burst onto the ice in a wave of sound and motion, eliciting cheers and chants from the gathered throng. With the spotlights shining and the people screaming my name, I take center stage against Ovechkinov, the Sabertooths center, locking eyes behind the grids of our helmets.

The sounds of the stadium seem to recede to nothing as I watch the puck rise out of the ice. With muscles tensed and Ovechkinov in the corner of my eye, I think of nothing but the game. I feel nothing but the cold iron of the stick in my hand. My breath comes slow and steady.

The buzzer sounds, loud and jarring, and everything springs to action. Ovechkinov slams his stick into my face, sending three teeth scattering across the ice. I hit the puck as hard as I can, connecting with Ovechkinov's ankle on the upswing with a resounding crack. He crumbles to the floor as Browder darts after the puck, in the process skating over and severing two of Ovechkinov's fingers.

Lenieux and Ort rush to intercept, but Jagger is quick with the assist, slamming into Ort so fiercely that I can hear the gasping wheeze of Ort's collapsed lung.

Sprinting into action, I glide across the ice. The gro-gel pumps hot in my veins, and I feel new teeth pushing painfully out of my gums. Just as Lenieux is about to lay into Browder, I spear my stick into his throat, knocking him flat on his back. 

Browder narrowly avoids a collision, but not before Lenieux slashes his skate deep into his leg. Grunting, Browder brings the puck within feet of the opposing goal crease. With a mighty swing, he ricochets the heavy puck off the shin of Gowtsky the goalkeep and into the Sabertooths net. Point for Frostwolves.

The puck recedes into the ice and those who are able stagger back to the center of the rink. Ovechkinov's fingers are starting to grow back, pink and raw. Browder has lost a pool of blood and is being dragged off the field to be replaced by Howel. It looks like his gro-gel packs have been ruptured in the action. I hope Browder is ok. He's already died three times this season, and the neural reupload is hard on a player.

Tiny bots have swept the ice clean, pushing fingers and ears and an eye in gory masses out of the rink. Over hours the flesh will grow in piles, and men will shovel our discarded remains into overflowing buckets. Shovelfuls of flesh and blood, to be sold as souvenirs to our many fans. After the game, a child will beg his father for my teeth and Jagger's kneecap, precious mementos to be cherished his entire life.

But there's no time to think about that now. The puck is rising out of the ice again, and the buzzer is sounding. Back to the melee we go in a rush of guts and violence. Smashing faces and breaking limbs, we revel in the glory of sport. I lose track of the score. All I feel is the grace of the game.

==========
CUT TO 500
==========

From the locker room, we hear the last roaring echoes of the pre-game show. I adjust the gro-gel packs on my chest and back, twisting open valves that pump the fluid into my veins.

"Show time!" shouts coach. "Let's crush some skulls tonight!"

"Frostwolves fight!" we shout back, storming into the arena in a sea of adrenaline. We arrive in a wave of sound and motion, eliciting cheers and chants from the gathered crowd. With the people screaming my name, I take center stage against Ovechkinov, the Sabertooths center.

The noise of the stadium seems to fade as I watch the puck rise out of the ice. With muscles tensed and Ovechkinov in the corner of my eye, I think of nothing but the game. I feel nothing but the cold iron of the stick in my hand. My breath comes slow and steady.

The buzzer sounds, loud and jarring, and everything springs to action. Ovechkinov slams his stick into my face, sending three teeth scattering across the ice. I hit the puck as hard as I can, connecting with Ovechkinov's ankle on the upswing with a resounding crack. He crumbles to the floor as Browder darts after the puck, in the process skating over and severing two of Ovechkinov's fingers.

Lenieux rushes to intercept, but Jagger is quick with the assist, slamming him to the ground so fiercely that I can hear the wheeze of his collapsed lung.

Browder narrowly avoids a collision, but not before Lenieux slashes his skate deep into his leg, severing an artery. Grunting, Browder gives a mighty swing, ricocheting the heavy puck off the shin of Gowtsky the goalkeep and into the Sabertooths net. Point for Frostwolves.

The puck recedes into the ice and we stagger back into position. The gro-gel pumps hot in my veins, and new teeth push painfully out of my gums. Ovechkinov's fingers are starting to grow back, pink and raw. Browder is being dragged off the field to be replaced by Howel. It looks like his gro-gel packs have been ruptured in the action. I hope Browder is ok. He's already died three times this season, and the neural reupload is hard on a player.

Tiny bots have swept the ice clean, pushing fingers and ears and an eye in gory masses out of the rink. Over hours the flesh will grow in piles, and men will shovel our discarded remains into overflowing buckets, to be sold as souvenirs to our many fans. After the game, a child will beg his father for my teeth and Jagger's kneecap, precious mementos to be cherished his entire life.

But there's no time to think about that now. The puck is rising out of the ice again, and the buzzer is sounding. Back to the melee we go in a rush of guts and violence. Smashing faces and breaking limbs, we revel in the glory of sport. I lose track of the score. All I feel is the grace of the game.
