I first encountered the Northern levitating ray twenty years ago, as a young researcher on the Sirius-6 Ecology Project. My team originally planned to spend a year studying the planet's mineral forests, but our attention quickly diverted to the levitating rays that populated the northern pole.

Sirius-6 is a cold planet, with an average surface temperature of 36 Kelvin, with the poles reaching a high of only 41 Kelvin in the summers. The Northern levitating ray calls this hostile environment home. The ray has a flat broad body, mainly composed of nickel, with a network of superconducting magnesium diboride nodules scattered along its underbelly. This composition allows it to hover above the iron surface of Sirius-6, in the highly magnetized region around the pole.

On the first day we set up base on the frigid planetary surface, a young male ray snuck into our encampment and wandered curiously around our recording equipment. Though we gently guided him back into the wilderness, he returned on each subsequent day. This ray had a large silver spot on his left wing tip, and my team came to affectionately call him "Lefty". We know now that the Northern levitating ray primarily senses its environment via magnetic fields, so our electronic equipment must have looked fascinating to him.

For much of the year, the Northern levitating ray forages on crystal growths and hunts for small creatures like ferritic beetles. The rays also exhibit caching behavior, storing stockpiles of food in their burrows in preparation for summer. Toward the beginning of summer on Sirius-6, the temperature during the day begins to exceed 39 Kelvin, the superconducting transition temperature of magnesium diboride. Any ray unlucky enough to be caught in the heat loses its levitation, falling gracelessly to the ground. In such a condition, the ray can only flop at a snail's pace, and must wait for the cooler temperatures of nighttime to regain mobility. In this vulnerable state, the rays are lucky to have no predators.

Researchers agree that the ray evolved this characteristic due to the nature of its home star. Sirius is a binary star, composed of the massive Sirius-A and the white dwarf Sirius-B. A planet orbiting this system follows the chaotic nature of three-body physics, and can fall into different semi-stable orbits over time. Simulations have shown that only a few thousand years ago, Sirius-6 was in a cooler, more distant orbit, suggesting that the caching behaving of the rays was a recent adaptation.

By the end of that trip, it was mid-summer and the surface temperatures on Sirius-6 were exceeding 39 Kelvin for most of the day. Lefty by that time had gone into hibernation, and I would not see him again for another ten years.

By my next visit to Sirius-6, I was an assistant professor leading a team of graduate exobiologists. Our visit was prompted by measurements indicating that Sirius-6 was continuing to shift in its orbit. The temperature on the surface had risen by an average of a degree since my last visit, and my team wished to document the effects on the planetary ecosystem.

Following a tracker we had placed on Lefty, we found him in a region about 30 miles west of our original campsite. By now he had grown into a large adult ray, measuring nearly six feet across. Though we tried to be unobtrusive, Lefty once again was drawn to our electronic equipment. Unfortunately for us, he was now a full-grown male, and he made multiple attempts to mate with our holographic recorder. We attempted to lift the recorder onto the roof of our encampment, but Lefty simply circled the area until we shut the recorder off. All of our records on that trip were thus made via 2D cameras.

The rest of that mating season proceeded without further incident, and Lefty was able to attract a silvery female with a diamond-shaped mark on her tail. The courtship ritual was elaborate and beautiful, as the rays circled each other and waved their fins in undulating waves that shimmered in the starlight. Northern levitating rays are known to mate for life, and raise a brood of young roughly every five years. Within a few months, Lefty and Diamond were being followed everywhere by five tiny rays, each roughly the size and shape of a poplar leaf.

On that trip, summer came faster than we expected. Before we knew it, the days grew long and the temperatures rose high. On one particularly hot dawn Lefty was caught in the rising heat, and the temperature did not drop below 39 Kelvin even at night. For almost two full days he lay on the ground, unable to return to his burrow. Finally, on the second night it became cool enough to resume levitation, and he darted off into the distance. We did not see him again that trip, though our tracker confirmed that he'd made it safely home.

Another ten years passed, and I returned once again to Sirius-6, this time as a senior professor. By this time the planet had risen another full degree, and surface recordings showed that many weeks could pass where it did not fall below 39 Kelvin. Though it should have been autumn, there were no rays on the surface. My team, following the tracker that we had placed on Lefty twenty years ago, located his burrow. Inside, we found the emaciated corpses of Lefty and Diamond. They had left behind a small stockpile of food for their new brood, of which three were still alive.

In the following decades, the temperature of Sirius-6 is predicted to rise another two degrees. Though Lefty's brood may survive this year, their future looks increasingly grim. It seems there is no longer a place in this universe for the Northern levitating ray. As the planet continues to warm, it seems to be entering a period of permanent summer. As I write this report, Sirius rises on the horizon, sending its merciless heat onto a dying world.
