Chapter 1 - The Network

Our universal trade network used to rely on a pair of twin worlds called Goomb and Doodoolootoo. From the moment their species invented interstellar travel and stepped onto two planets, the citizen of one planet has hated the other one's guts.
    Their constant squabbling and oneupsmanship drove the greatest economic boom and technological race the galaxy had ever seen. They were eons ahead of the rest of us. In fact, only an Aleph-infitesimal amount of the worlds in our network had even discovered fire before Doodoolootoo or Goomb made first contact.
    My own planet, Gruumph-Grr, was visited first by Goomb and rapidly force-industrialized. They shipped us all the resources we needed to build a world, gave us blueprints, and watched over us as we worked. And just like that, in a few years we were modernized.
    It was then we understood the blueprints - that our entire planetary economy had been reshaped around making a single size and shape of metal rivet. In their factories that spanned galaxies, we were part of the assembly line.
    And in that very same instant, the universal economy opened to us. Goods from the width and breadth of the galaxy flew to Gruumph-Grr all at once. We were blinded, as our bodies were rewired, our cities grew from the ground, as strange mechanical birds and beasts and laws of nature flew and transformed our planet.
    We understood now - we were part of the endless competition between Goomb and Doodoolootoo, one in which we were not even pawns. All the network's trade went through Goomb and Doodoolootoo, through Doodoolootoo and Goomb, who constantly fought among themselves for control of trade routes. They connected the routes in ever more intricate ways, using them to become more efficient, more advanced, more powerful.
    And thus we washed in the waves of that universal competition for thousands of years. Our worlds advanced in exponential exponentials. All at once Gruumph-Grr would change entirely, become fully something else. We were goat shearers, walnut crackers, drive-through nose wipers. Shifts would happen in the blink of an eye. It was beyond our ability to understand. And yet the acceleration of pace was infinite and eternal. We advanced at speeds too large for a single world to comprehend, and thus we all depended on the network.

And then it stopped.

Gruumph-Grr at the time had an economy built around oil production. Continent-sized mega-farms churned out meat in vats, delivering rivers of flesh to the decomposition dams. The dams liquified and compressed the decaying organic matter, releasing currents of oil that flowed as a mighty sea to be shipped out into space. When the network stopped, the last shipment flew off and no new ships came in. The oil flowed to the ocean, where it slowly poisoned the whole world. We were lucky. We had a small pocket of water in a recycling center that could sustain about a thousand people. That was enough to survive. The production vats were sustainable, and the reactor in the center of Grummph-Grr was anti-entropic and eternal, so we would always have vat meat to eat.
    Most planets weren't as fortunate. Our neighbor K'k!k, I found out much later, had perished almost immediately. They had an economy built around winding up floss for packaging. They didn't make the floss or the packaging, but only wound it up. Their planet depended on incoming shipments for food and water, and had no other resources.
    It was a long time before we re-entered the network, but we had bodies enhanced beyond aging. We waited for eons. It turned out that out of the whole universe, only a single backwater planet called HmmMMM, which at the time of the network stoppage served as a garbage dump, had enough resources to start rebuilding. Through uncountable trial and error, using discarded machine bits, gadgets, and documents, they reconnected the network neighbor by neighbor. By the time we reunified, a ratio approaching one of the universe had perished.

So what happened? As I understand it, Goomb and Doodoolootoo realized their race would never end, would never have a winner, and agreed to stop putting in so much effort. The citizens of the two planets laze around all day now, only arising half-heartedly now and then to boast about having the better economy. The members of the reconstructed trade network took a vote and decided unaminously, with not even an Aleph-anything of disagreement, to not invite them back into the network.
