Chapter 2 - Meat and Salt

I remember well the end of our isolation. Long ago, on an endless day like any other, we Grrumph-Grrians sat around the vat and ate our daily meat. It was a feast of muscle and fat, skin and scale. The tendon-weavers among us wove ligaments and sinews into fashionable hats, while the chronic gamblers wagered globules of fatty tissue on rolls of the knuckle bones. My meat that day contained a beautifully formed arm bone, which I traded to Kwagh-grr the bonesmith for a new shin knife. It was the end of the cartilage age, and we were in high fashion. Beautiful carven skullcaps and leathered skin scarves were all the rage, and the vat provided us with endless luxuries.
    Of all the bounties of the vat, eye goop was the rarest and the highest in demand. Valued for its use in high-end tail cream, such a treasure was strictly finders-keepers. You can imagine the scene then when Wrrm-boof-boof the skinstitcher found not one but three fully-formed eyes in her daily meat. The scene that broke out was supernova in scale and intensity, with neighing and barking to drown out even the humming of the vat.
    In the midst of all that chaos, I was the only one to notice the visitor from HmmMMM. Like an arrow from the sky, his ship descended from the clouds, and the small furry creature hopped onto our planet. With a flick, it popped the trunk of its ship, plopped out one of many identical boxes, and zoomed back into space. The visit was so quick that the others in their fervor missed it entirely, and I had to fight to draw their attention. With much stomping of hooves and pulling of ears, I finally pried the crowd's thoughts from eye goop and tail cream to encompass awareness of the mysterious box.
    A silence fell then over the gathered crowd, and a team was formed to ferry the box back to our quarters, where we huddled to examine the instructions left for us in Standard Galaxian.
    "Greetings, citizens of [INSERT PLANET HERE]," the note began. "Please find enclosed schematics and components for one (1) intergalactic spaceship, courtesy of your friends on HmmMMM".
    A swell of excitement rose up in the room, and the mass of Grrumph-Grrians began to cheer and grunt and howl. Some galloped in circles. Some rolled over and stuck their legs in the air. Most wagged and panted with joy. The great construction then began and continued throughout the nights and days, until at the verge of exhaustion we tightened the last screw and stepped back to reveal our own small spaceship. The ship was ugly and flew awkwardly, since we'd assembled many of the components backwards or upside down, but we were exuberant because we could leave the bounds of Grrumph-Grr for the first time in countless years.
    On that day, I was chosen as part of a crew of four to form the Grrumph-Grr Interplanetary Expedition. Aside from myself -- the Noticer of the Box -- there was Ukk-oogh, who was the strongest and the bravest of our people. Our pilot was Muh-kuh-hweck, the smartest of our people. And against my wishes there was also Snff-snff, the most annoying of our people, who was chosen for the sole purpose of getting him off-planet. Thus nominated, our ship was well-provisioned with everything we needed for our maiden voyage. We had a month's supply of fresh meat, de-boned, de-tendoned, and separated into lean and fatty varieties for Snff-snff, who got nauseous if the two types touched. We had plenty of recycled water, triple-filtered for Snff-snff's allergies. There were hair ropes, tendon baskets, skin blankets, and bone tools of all kinds, all fine-polished to avoid irritating Snff-snff's sensitive skin and hands. We also had cartons of medicines made from cartilage and ground scales and powdered shell and congealed blood, to treat Snff-snff's morning breath and afternoon fatigue and evening dizziness. With the supplies all ready, we took our positions, donned our space suits (awkwardly modified to suit Grrumph-Grrian anatomy), and prepared for launch. Our people gathered all around, giving us a hero's farewell as we rose into the sky and exited the familiar atmosphere of our home planet.

Our first mission was to a neighboring world called Zubbub, where we were tasked with finding survivors. Zubbub served at the time of the Stoppage as a salt repository. It was an entirely artificial planet composed of a single giant block of salt, with cavernous mines and underground cities connected by wormlike tunnels throughout the planetary core. Though chances of life were slim to none, we felt obliged to confirm the fate of Zubbub with our own eyes. With but a short journey, we reached the planet and touched down on its perfectly flat surface.
    Loaded with travel provisions and armed with bone clubs and tendon crossbows, we set foot on Zubbub's endless white plains. I led the way, Muk-kuh-hweck and Snff-snff followed closely behind, and Ukk-oogh covered our rear. Our hoofsteps crunched softly as we galloped across the sun-baked salt. Mine entrances dotted the landscape as far as the eye could see, each receding into darkness as though they could stretch to infinity. If there were survivors they would be deep underground.
    Sticking close together, the four of us picked a mine and entered the darkness with only our helmet lights for illumination. The path went down, down, down, in zigzags that went on for miles. The tunnels would twist and curve and double back on themselves. Sometimes passages became so narrow that we would squeeze through single-file. Sometimes we walked through voluminous caverns with stalagmites reaching higher than our lights could illuminate. Each time the road forked or joined, we would mark the walls and ground, always going deeper underground. All of us became winded, even Ukk-oogh, as we had not walked so vast in distance in many long years. Yet still the road continued, deeper and deeper into the planet. Snff-snff began to moan, and asked again and again if we were there yet, to which we responded with less energy each time. As we descended we slowed our gallop to a canter, then our canter to a trot, then our trot to a saunter, then finally our saunter to a dragging shuffle. Snff-snff had fallen silent by now, and the only sounds in the air were the crunching of salt and the echoing of our tired panting. Still we had seen no signs of life or death, so we stopped to make a rest. Muh-kuh-hweck rummaged through her bags and prepared our rations, and we sat to eat our food in silence.
    As I was tiredly making my way into a chewy piece of gray meat, my ears suddenly perked up at a sound in the darkness. Looking up, I realized we were surrounded! Two gangly-looking creatures with many limbs lunged out of the darkness, placing Muk-kuh-hweck in an awkward chokehold. Ukk-oogh dodged another, and knocked out his attacker with a powerful uppercut. Two more of them came at me, but I hit one with my club so hard that the bone broke in half and the creature crumpled to the floor. Jumping on the other one, I pinned three of their arms while another flailed wildly in the air.
    "Drop her!" growled Ukk-oogh, and I looked up to see his crossbow pointed at one of Muh-kuh-hweck's attackers, who had a dagger pushed against her throat. Muh-kuh-hweck in turn had her other attacker pinned beneath her knee, with her club raised above their head. The pinned creature had a blowdart aimed at me, and I scrambled to point the jagged broken edge of my bone club against my own attacker's throat, who had freed a second arm and was now aiming a bow at Ukk-oogh.
    "Snff-snff!" I barked, before registering a small heap in the corner and realizing that he'd fainted in the excitement. I let out a sigh.
    "Ah," gurgled one of the creatures. "It looks like we have a classic Southwest Zubbubian standoff".
    "You mean a Quadrant-3E Grrumph-Grrrian standoff," Ukk-oogh grunted.
    There was a moment's silence. The creature lowered their blowdart.
    "You're from Grrumph-Grr? How did you get here?"
    Like a deflating gas bladder, the tension drained out of the room. My assailant lowered their bow. Muh-kuh-hweck laid down her club. Her attacker loosened their chokehold, and I set down my weapon as well. Finally, after a long moment, Ukk-oogh undrew his crossbow.

The Zubbubbians were friendly afterwards, and summoned a salt-mining robot to carry our unconscious companions. They checked our wounds and led the way to the nearby city of Brrblubbu. The Zubbubbian with the blowdart introduced themselves as Zlubbu, and apologized for the attack.
    "You can't be too cautious around here," he bubbled in apology. "There are raiders who would attack us for our jerky".
    "Jerky?" asked Muh-kuh-hweck.
    "Yes, jerky," replied Zlubbu. "You see, after the Stoppage we Zubbubbians thought we were doomed. Our species is hardy and could survive without water, but we eventually ran out of food. As time went on, billions of us dropped dead where we stood. This planet used to be home to 150 billion, but now there are barely 10 thousand of us".
    "How have you survived so long?" I asked.
    "Ah, that's where the jerky comes in. You see, the high salt content of Zubbub preserved all of those corpses where they fell. Not only did they not decay, but over time they became delicious jerky. It is by feeding on our dead that we are able to sustain life".
    "That's... that's horrible!" yelped Muh-kuh-hweck.
    "Not at all!" blurped Zlubbu. "It is a great honor to be eaten by our fellow Zubbubbians. It is a way of giving back to the community, and a way of ensuring that our bodies will not go to waste. We Zubbubbians are a proud people, and we would rather be eaten by our friends than be left to rot. Besides, a great food culture has sprung up around our jerky consumption. For example, jerky from the Northern mantle has a delicious teriyaki flavor, while that from the core is known for its smoky texture. Jerky from the pink salt veins of the equator is crisp yet chewy. Black salt shoulder is very popular right now, and our chefs have found many delicious ways of preparing it". So saying, they began licking what must have been their lips.
    Muh-kuh-hweck looked unconvinced, but seeing as how we'd been eating mystery meat for the better part of forever, Ukk-oogh and I felt we had no room to judge.
    A short walk later, we entered the city of Brrblubbu. It was a sprawling metropolis, with many layers of walkways and criss-crossing ladders. The streets were mostly empty, but a small section in the middle of town was filled with Zubbubbians of all shapes and sizes. They gazed at us with alarm as we passed, but Zlubbu and the other Zubbubians gave soothing gurgles to the assembled crowd. We were led to a large building in the center of the city, and were introduced to the mayor of Brrblubbu, a large, gangly Zubbubbian with more limbs than usual. Upon hearing our story, the mayor ordered a feast in the town square, and the cheery news spread throughout the gathered throng. With bloops and borbles of excitement, the townsfolk prepped the festivities, and the delicious aroma of assorted meats filled the air.
    As honored guests, we were given high seats at the table, and were asked to tell our tales again and again. The servers came with many delicacies. There was shredded cheek meat, skewered Southern hindleg, and charred inner-core back fat served with infused foot. We drank all the water we brought, and even Muh-kuh-kweck had to admit it was the best meal she'd had since the days before the Stoppage. Ukk-oogh scarfed down leg after leg, barely chewing in his feasting. Snff-snff came to sometime during the meal, and quietly appeared at the table nibbling on an ear. I ate until I thought I would explode, and thought the expedition to be well worth it after all.

The days after that first contact were a delightful blur. We carried shipments of salt and jerky from Zubbub to Grrumph-Grr, and brought meat and crafted goods in the other direction. The new flavors of jerky and salt drove many Grrumph-Grrians mad with ecstacy, but the Zubbubbians were less enthused with our vat offerings, and most preferred to stick with their by-now traditional cuisine. With some stripped mining equipment from Zubbub, Muk-kuh-hweck was able to set up a communication relay on Grrumph-Grr and establish a channel between the two planets. We were treated as heroes in those days, and were given statues of bone and statues of salt.
    But time passed, and we remembered the rest of the universe. Ukk-oogh and I talked it over, and decided to map the rest of our local system. Zlubbu, by now our good friend, packed his things and joined our crew. Muk-kuh-hweck decided to stay on Zubbub as an ambassador and communications engineer, and as no one else could pilot the ship, we retrofitted a salt mining robot to be our new pilot. We renamed our ship to the Taste of the Universe, stocked up on supplies, and set off into the vast expanse of space.
    And oh yes, I almost forgot -- on our first journey back from Zubbub Snff-snff got violently spacesick, slipped on a puddle of engine fluid, and fell out of an airlock never to be seen again.
